Welcome to COVID on Campus!

My name is Caitlin Matheis and I created this project for one of my graduate digital humanities courses at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. COVID-19 has 
affected everyone’s lives in many ways, and the goal of this project was to document the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on UNL’s campus. Though COVID 
has impacted the classroom significantly with desks being placed at least six feet apart and many classes meeting virtually rather than in person, most of 
what I have documented for this project is about COVID’s impact on the campus atmosphere; what does it feel like to be on campus right now? What precautions are being taken before 
a student even enters a building? Has COVID affected the student life center or the orientation program that happens in an ordinary year? Many questions 
could be asked, but I hope that this project can give you a small glimpse into what campus life is like during a global pandemic. 

For this project, I produced a series of written observations while I was on campus, which you can find under the Articles menu or by clicking here. I also 
took a series of photos of campus, which you can find under the Photos menu or by clicking here. I also experimented and analyzed several digital platforms 
that I could have used to publish this project. You can find this written analysis under the Articles menu or by clicking here. 

COVID on Campus – Observing Downtown Lincoln

UNL hasn’t been the only place in Lincoln affected by the coronavirus. To understand how COVID has impacted downtown Lincoln, I wanted to create an 
interactive, visual experience. To do this, I used two tools: GeoJSON and StoryMap. First, I created a map in GeoJSON. Because I wanted to focus my 
observations on how the businesses of Lincoln have been affected by COVID, I used GeoJSON not only to focus my StoryMap on Lincoln as opposed to the 
default world maps installed on the platform, but to highlight the physical boundaries of the storefronts I explored. Placing points on a map helps the 
viewer understand the proximity of each location. Highlighting the storefronts on the map helps the viewer understand the physical size of the storefront, 
and therefore how COVID may have impacted the business differently because of its size, in addition to presenting the proximity of the businesses. I then 
uploaded the GeoJSON map into StoryMap and plotted points on the map to mimic the walk I took downtown; the view of the StoryMap experiences and observes 
downtown Lincoln in the same order that I did. As a result, the photos and location can be viewed alongside the observations. 

For this project, I produced a series of written observations while I was on campus, which you can find under the Articles menu or by clicking here. You 
can find the StoryMap I created underneath the StoryMap menu or by clicking here. I also experimented and analyzed several narrative that I could have used 
to publish this project. You can find this written analysis under the Articles menu or by clicking here. If you’d like to view photos of Downtown Lincoln 
during the pandemic, you can do us through the Photos menu or by clicking here.