Observations:University of Nebraska-Lincoln Campus

As I walked around University of Nebraska-Lincoln’s campus for this week’s report, I wished I had something to compare it to from before the virus, because part of me feels like I would have a better understanding of how COVID has impacted UNL’s atmosphere. I haven’t been to campus when coronavirus wasn’t a thing. I snuck in a visit for less than 24 hours just before everything shut down in the spring. I walked around at the beginning of August with my parents after moving into my apartment, before classes began and students moved into the dorms. I’ve spent so much time this summer thinking about how the beginning of my graduate school experience will be completely different from what I was expecting, but also about individual versus institutional responsibility and how that will impact UNL. 

One of the first things I notice about campus is how many signs are posted around with information about coronavirus, to advertise safety precautions to prevent the spread of COVID and to make it appear to campus’s visitors that everything is okay and these safety guidelines are enforced by the university. Doors have signs posted about the mask and social distancing requirement. Hand sanitizer stations are tethered to the ground, inside and outside. They care about our health and are doing everything they can, right? Staley says that” the most effective way to draw meaning from large data sets is through visual forms and patterns” (32). In posting signs everywhere outdoors, posting the same signs on every door, in putting hand sanitizer by every door, UNL administration seems to be drilling those visual signs in our heads so that students, faculty, and staff can hopefully understand how important it is to take precautions on campus. 

There appears to be safety measures in place, but I’m skeptical. I don’t see many people using the hand sanitizer stations. Administration says there are “only” 107 confirmed cases on campus, but there’s little information on how numbers are collected from the various testing sites. I’m skeptical that the number isn’t higher. I got tested at the beginning of August and was not asked about my affiliation with UNL. Maybe they ask if your results are positive? I doubt it. I’m concerned about how unconcerned administration seemed in the email that reported case numbers. When I walked around campus, Outdoors, I noticed many students without masks even though they were walking around in groups, and even one student walk in and out of the mail center, apparently without trouble, without a mask. To say we were sitting six feet apart in my one in-person class feels like a stretch. I noticed disinfectant and hand sanitizer, chained to the wall at the “Health and Wellness Station” by the classroom door. Is it really worth being in the classroom? 

If all of these precautions have to be taken, if a hundred different emergency plans need to be made, if people will still fall ill regardless of these measures being taken, then what are we doing here in the first place? How many students will have to get sick until the university shuts down? Staley also says that “the practice of humanities is also defined by textual performances” (34). To what extent are all the texts—emails, signs, websites—simply a performance by the university? Do they actually care about each UNL community member’s health, or are the signs simply a performance? With it being unsafe to meet in person and so many university operations turning to a digital platform, how can we apply the digital humanities concern of “access to technology and its application” at the university-wide level (Hunter et. al133)? How do privileged assumptions about access to technology affect how health information is spread and the effectiveness of remote education?

Click here to view a photo album of UNL’s campus during COVID on our Flickr page.