Tool Analysis: Blogger, WordPress, Flickr and Omeka

While exploring these four different platforms, I compared them in several different ways. Looking at platforms were more similar, I found myself comparing the more technical workings of the site rather than looking at them as a whole. As I navigated each of these sites, I thought about how user-friendly each site was and the target audience for the site both in terms of who was supposed to use each site and who was supposed to access each site. 

When I logged into Blogger, I was surprised at how sleek it was. A few years ago, I had briefly experimented with Blogger for a project. The site had been colorful and quirky. It seems they’ve rebranded to appear more professional. I found this interesting after I explored the website a little more, because in many ways I felt this was the most beginner-friendly site, particularly for a personal blog versus professional, but only if you are making a site that is mostly text-based. This is because the home page and the post-publishing page would be familiar to many people: the home page looks like the way many Google platforms are structured (which makes sense since it requires a Google account to login) and the post publish page looks like a standard word processor. For most people, getting a basic site up and running on this platform would go smoothly. When I went to put metadata into my post, my first instinct was to put as many tags as possible. When I tried to add them, it told me I had too many, which made consider the quality and quantity of metadata we need to use. What were the most important and relevant tags to include on my post? 

After Blogger, I visited WordPress. At first, they appear to have very similar setups. Wordpress, though, has more in-depth information on the home page. I did like that Wordpress provided step-by-step instructions for building your blog. However, Blogger has you name your site before you can even reach the homepage and I liked that better; at first, it wasn’t as clear to me how to name my site, especially because that seems like it should be the first step in building a site. I liked the design and theme setup process better in Wordpress; the preview option let you test themes with the task bar still on the left-hand side. Then once you wanted to edit, it took you to a screen like you were viewing like anybody else. You could browse themes in Blogger, but then when you clicked customize, it still gave you the option to change themes after you’d already selected one. I also couldn’t click the specific elements on the web page I wanted to edit on Blogger like I could on Wordpress. When I went to go publish a post, I expected, because I’ve used Wordpress before, the page to be like a word processor, with the option to add metadata on the right side. But they had redone this page…and I found it more difficult to navigate. For basic formatting, you needed to double click or highlight the text. 

Both sites were text-based, and I wish you could change theme to make it more of a photo gallery option along with text. I supposed you could figure out how do this if you know more coding, but it would be helpful to only present the pictures, and then a text-based post in another tab, where you might incorporate text and photos together depending on your project. 

Flicker is clearly a great option, but if you’re looking for posting only photos. It felt like more of a social media site to me, where photos can be posted and photographers can make connections or find inspiration for their own photography; it seemed more like a site for people looking to exhibit their skillsets and subject interests rather than displaying a photos for a professional project, like an archive. The site contains more metadata options than Blogger or Wordpress because, in addition to tagging and describing the photo, when you upload a picture, it automatically knows how the photo was taken (for example, that you used a 4 mm camera on your iPhone). But that’s metadata that would interest the target market of the website, whereas that feature wouldn’t necessarily do as well on the other platforms, but also because the text-based blog posts on the other sites are a more prevalent feature. 

Omeka was a more professional platform, with more extensive metadata options that seemed the most useful for a long-term archive or DH project and for people that already have basic web-design knowledge and have an understanding of metadata standardization. The site doesn’t use a typical blog post format, but instead allows you to create collections and exhibits on the site. This almost reminded me of the album and collection feature on Flickr. Both sites seem to be more useful for organizing photos that are uploaded onto the site, but the different names of the ways of organizing the photos and metadata implies a difference in the content of the uploaded images and material. Flickr’s use of “album” implies that it is simply a digitized version of pictures you would ordinarily print and put in an album like photos from a specific event or vacation. Omeka’s use of “exhibit” and “collections” also makes it seem like a virtual museum – that pictures of artifacts or collections you could see in person at the museum are being displayed virtually; that artifact in the picture is more important than the image itself. Omeka was more about the content and functionality for the target market (for the user market and the viewer market) than the branding and design of the site that would appeal to blog readers. 

All of the websites seemed very functional and user-friendly depending on what you were looking for. If you were planning on launching a project on one of these sites, which one you would choose would depend on what the project is, what you are planning on posting, what the goal of the project is, and how you want to display your information. 