Observations: Downtown Lincoln, Nebraska
One day, I visited downtown Lincoln to observe how the coronavirus has impacted it, particularly the way that businesses have been operating. As someone who has worked at a restaurant during COVID, I know the pandemic has taken huge toll on restaurants. I also know I didn’t always feel my employer was doing their best to keep employees and guests safe, despite the appearance that we were taking every precaution. The businesses and restaurants downtown all have different guidelines, but everyone is required to wear masks inside. With restaurants, though, it’s easy to avoid the mask rule. What is their responsibility for keeping employees and guests safe? What risks are willing to be taken to make up for the business lost during quarantine? 

I had already been in the Haymarket one Friday night to pick up dinner and there were many large groups of people walking closely together on the sidewalk without masks. I’d found myself stepping into the street to avoid being too close to them. Just because we’re outside doesn’t mean we can’t pass COVID around! This time, I was walking around the Haymarket mid-afternoon. I walked into a bakery and noticed a sign on the door asking customers to wear masks. On the sign was a handwritten note saying disposable masks were available, but if you weren’t comfortable with coming inside, curbside service was available. When I walked in, there was hand sanitizer by the door and a sign saying the dining room was closed. I was impressed by the measures they were still taking to keep people safe. So many restaurants reopened as soon as possible. I stopped at The Mill to get a black coffee to go with my pastry. On the patio, many people were sitting at tables barely six feet apart, laptops open, without wearing masks. There was plexiglass on the counters to separate the barista and the customer, but I think being inside where people can eat and there’s leniency with mask-wearing still makes me nervous. 

I also wanted to see how COVID affected places besides restaurants. So, one evening, I walked to the public library to return a book. I went to the book drop, where a notice was posted announcing that materials were going to be quarantined for three days before being checked in. I went back another day and when I went inside, was stopped at the door. They explained that patrons were limited to an hour in the library. I was given a label with a time on it so I knew when to leave. It’s a large enough space to distance from everyone inside and I was surprised at how safe I felt there. 

Nearly all the shops I see downtown have their own guidelines posted outside the store in addition to a sign about the mask requirement. In the last unit, I found myself wishing I could incorporate the pictures I took with the observations I made. I decided to take photos as I made my observations this week so I could get a few that I could incorporate into my observations, so visitors on my site could get a visual of what I’m writing about. But I still have some of the same doubts about downtown as I do about UNL: how much of this is just an appearance?

Click here to view a photo album on Downtown Lincoln during COVID on our Flickr page.

